# overhead-flight-tracker
so basically this is our code. We have like a little hardware module (Particle Photon 1) that we're using as our compute module, it basically pulls it's location (lat and lon) and then uses that to register on the server with its device specific api key which is associated to the deviceID stored in a .env file as DEVICE_KEYS={key}:{device-name}. You don't have to use a Particle Photon 1, but the hardware code will be written specifically for the Photon since that's what we have. So after registering the device and its location, the device will then poll the /flights endpoint to get it's json array of flights flying overhead within the specified radius around the location of the device. The photon then takes that array and displays the corresponding flight data on the screen it's wired up to and the array is cycled through using a keyswitch on board

Now time for the server code. So the server code polls two api's per device, the OpenSky api (4,000 queries/day for free account) for realtime flight data once every minute (can be changed), if new overhead flights are found within the radius of each specific device it'll then hit the AirLabs api (1,000 queries/month for a free account) to pull flight data like departure and destination airport, which is then packed neatly into the json array that the Photon can pull from it's /flights endpoint. Flights that are found are cached to reduce requests to the AirLabs api since that has a pretty low limit of free tier requests, I didn't look too much into OpenSky but that api alone might be able to handle everything but my brief, and surface level research, made it seem like it couldn't be used for that. There is also a built in time window so that it'll only poll during certain hours of the day to also save on api calls and minimize queries used especially when not needed.

I think that pretty much covers it, this is a really scuffed readme and I might clean it up later and make it look better and more like a real and half-decent readme.
